---
title: "PhasiRNAnalyzer: an integrated analyser for plant phased siRNA"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2021-02-04
excerpt: ''
date: 2021-02-04
venue: 'RNA Biology'
paperurl: 'https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/15476286.2021.1879543'
citation: '<b>Fei Y</b>, Feng J, Wang R, Zhang B, Zhang H, Huang J<sup>#</sup> PhasiRNAnalyzer: an integrated analyser for plant phased siRNA. <i>RNA Biology</i>, 18(11): 1622–1629, 2021.'
---

Phased siRNAs (phasiRNAs) are a class of small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) which play essential roles in plant development and defence. However, only a few phasiRNAs have been extensively studied due to the difficulties in identifying and characterizing plant phasiRNAs by plant biologists. Herein, we describe a comprehensive and multi-functional web server termed PhasiRNAnalyzer, which is able to identify all crucial components in plant phasiRNA's regulatory pathway (phase-initiator→PHAS gene→phasiRNA cluster→target gene). Currently, PhasiRNAnalyzer exhibits the following advantages: I) It is the most comprehensive platform which hosts 170 plant species with 256 genome data, 438 cDNA data and 271 degradome data. II) It can identify all crucial components in phasiRNA's regulatory pathway, and verify the interactions between phasiRNAs and their target genes based on degradome data. III) It can perform differential expression analysis of phasiRNAs on each PHAS gene locus between different samples conveniently. IV) It provides the user-friendly interfaces and introduces several improvements, primarily by making more accurate and efficient analysis when dealing with deep sequencing data. In summary, PhasiRNAnalyzer is a comprehensive and systemic phasiRNA analysis server with high sensitivity and efficiency. It can be freely accessed at https://cbi.njau.edu.cn/PPSA/.
